Up until now, we've learned
about tabular methods.
Methods that store table
containing separately
learn values,
for each possible state.
In real-world problems,
these tables will become
intractably large.
Imagine a robot that sees
the world through a camera.
We clearly cannot store
a table entry for
every possible image.
Luckily, this is not
the only possibility.
Today we'll talk about
more general ways
to approximate value function.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to
understand how we
can use parameterized functions
to approximate values,
explain linear function
approximation,
recognize that
the tabular case is
a special case of linear
value function approximation,
and understand that
there are many ways to
parameterize an approximate
value function.
In previous courses,
we spent a lot of
time thinking about how to
estimate value functions.
So far, our value approximations
have always had the same form.
For each state, we store
separate value in a table.
We look at values,
and modify them in
the table as learning progresses.
But this is not the only way
to approximate a value function.
In principle, we can use
any function that takes a state,
and produces a real number.
For example in a grid like this,
our value function approximation
could take the X and Y position,
and add them together to
produce a value estimate.
This was just to get
your intuitions going.
We wouldn't want to use
this as a value function,
because we can't modify
the approximation.
So we have no way to do learning.
This is where the idea of
a parameterized
function comes in.
We incorporate a set of
real valued weights,
which we can adjust to
change the function.
For example in this grid,
instead of using
a fixed sum of X and Y,
we could use a function
of the form w-1 times X,
plus w-2 times Y.
The weights w-1 and w-2
parameterize our function.
They allow us to change
the output the
function generates.
To indicate that this function
approximates
the true value function,
we use the notation v hat.
W is a vector containing
all the weights that
parameterize the approximation.
We do not have to store
a whole table of values.
We only have to
store two weights to
represent our value
function approximation.
You can imagine how
this compact representation
is useful for large state spaces.
The tabular
representation modifying
the value estimates
for one state,
leaves the others unchanged.
This is no longer the case
with a parameterized function.
Watch what happens to
the value estimates of
each state as we
change the weight w-1.
If we change either w-1 or w-2,
we will change the value
estimate for every state.
Now, our learning outcomes
will modify the weights,
instead of the individual
state values.
The example we just
discussed is a special case
called linear value
function approximation.
In this case, the value
of each state is
represented by a linear
function of the weights.
This simply means that
the value of each state,
is computed as the sum of
the weights multiplied by
some fixed attributes of
the state called features.
We can express this compactly.
We write that the approximate
value is given by
the inner product of
this feature vector,
and the weight vector.
We will use bold X of S to
denote the feature vector.
Our choice of feature impacts
the kinds of value
functions we can represent.
For example, consider
the approximation we've
discussed so far.
With it, we can only
represent value
functions which changed
linearly as a function
of the features X and Y.
Consider the case where
the true value function
is given by the numbers
on this grid.
We cannot represent this as
a linear function of X and Y.
To get these outer
values correct,
w-1 and w-2 both need to be zero.
However that would mean
these inner values are not
correct because at least one
of w-1 and w-2,
must be non-zero for
the sum that equal five.
But we don't have to use
X and Y as features.
Linear function
approximation relies
on having good features.
Here X and Y are not
good features for this problem.
But as you'll see later,
there are many powerful methods
to construct features.
Linear function approximation
is actually very general.
In fact, even a tabular
representation is
a special case of
linear function approximation.
To build a linear
value function to
represent this tabular
value function,
we need to define the features.
Let's choose our features to be
indicator functions
for particular states.
For state S_i,
feature i is one and
the remaining features are zero.
We have 16 features,
one for each state.
Let's compute
the approximate values
for a state with these features.
Since all the features are
zero except for one of them,
the inner product is equal to
the single weight
associated with that state.
Since every state's value is
represented by a separate weight,
this is equivalent to
a tabular value function.
These parameterized
values are general,
and we can consider lots of
different types of functions.
Neural networks are an example of
a non-linear function of state.
The output of the network is
our approximate value
for a given state.
The state is passed to
the network as the input.
All the connections in
the network correspond
to real valued weights.
When data is passed
through a connection,
the weight is multiplied
by its input.
This process transforms
the input state through
a sequence of layers to
finally produce
the value estimate.
We will take a deep dive
into neural networks later.
That's it for this video.
You should now be
comfortable with
the idea of
parameterized functions,
and how they might be used
to approximate value functions.
In the coming weeks, we
will discuss how to update
these approximate value functions
while the agent interacts
with the world.